Okay, so we saw how poll requests work
and how we can collaborate
if we add people as collaborators.
However, I did mention before that you typically
don't want to trust everyone who's reaching out to you.
You might not want to add everyone as a collaborator
because even though you can protect some branches
to make sure that even collaborators
can't change everything,
you still might not want to give everyone push permission.
And therefore here as the owner of this repository,
I'll remove that second account here.
I'll remove that account as a collaborator.
Therefore, now that our account no longer has permission
to push, as we can see, if I'm again back
on that second account's machine
and I make some change,
I break the code here and then
I check out that color branch again
and add that broken code, and create a commit
where I say broke code, if I tried to push this branch,
to remote which I did before as well,
now we're all of a sudden getting a permission error again
because I was removed as a collaborator.
Now, let's say I'm a totally new person.
Technically it's still that second GitHub account here.
But let's say I never was a collaborator of this project,
or maybe I was but I am no longer as it is the case now.
Maybe I still wanna contribute and not by breaking code
but by doing something useful.
Now, let's say I have no chance of becoming a collaborator
because people don't just add random people
as collaborators.
And indeed that is quite common for open source software.
If you wanna collaborate there and maybe solve bugs
on the code, you won't simply be added as a collaborator
by the owners of these projects.
And of course, rightfully so, they won't know
who has good intentions and who has not.
What you can do in such a case to still help
is you can fork a repository.
Now if you fork a repository, what you're doing
is you are cloning that repository on GitHub
so that you get your own repository on GitHub
which is based on this repository.
And then since that cloned repository on GitHub
will be your own repository,
you can clone that to your local machine, make changes,
push it to your cloned and owned GitHub repository
and then you can actually create poll requests
across repositories on GitHub.
That's what we'll do next.
So therefore here, ask that second user
on that repository on which we wanna work.
I'll click Fork and now this will create this repository
for this account, for this second account.
So I'll click Create Fork here, and this will now create
a brand new repository on GitHub which is forked
from that original repository.
But this is a different repository for a different user.
Now we can clone this as we did it before.
So here, therefore I'll again use Git clone
and name this Git Demo 2.
If I now hit Enter, this is downloaded
and I can open this in VSCode.
Again, that's now that second user
but it's a new project
based on this forked GitHub repository.
Now, here I wanna make sure
that I set my URL correctly for origin
and I'll use that URL of that forked repository here,
this URL with dot Git at the end here.
But I'll again add my username here,
Maxacademind2@GitHub.com
so that future pushes will take this username into account.
Okay, so now here I maybe wanna make a change,
not a breaking change but a useful change.
I want to change the color of these links
and make it more reddish, something like this.
So now I made this change
and I'll actually make that in a new branch.
And you can even check out and switch to a new branch
after making this change
as long as you haven't committed it.
So here I'll name it feat link color, this new branch,
and then I'll stage this style CSS file entry, this commit,
where I say changed link color like this.
Now I can push this feat link color branch
by using Git push origin which points
at my forked repository which this user does own on GitHub
and push this feat link color branch to it.
Now, this will succeed
using that personal access token from before
and since I added the username to the URL.
And now this is on this forked repository.
Important, it's not on the original repository.
There if we take a look at that, this branch does not exist.
Feat color is that other branch from before.
The new branch is named feat link color
and that only exists on that forked repository.
Now I wanna suggest to implement this change
to that main repository.
For that, I could again create an issue
and say that I want this feature
but I can also create a poll request right away.
For this, as this second user here,
I'll go to the original repository
and there I'll open a new poll request
just as I did it before.
Now, however, I wanna compare across forks
and I can click this button here to do that.
That now allows me to choose the repository
and branch into which I wanna merge.
And that is that main repository of the first GitHub user
and there at the main branch
but I'm selecting my own forked repository as the source
and there the feat link color branch.
And with that I'm now suggesting that these changes
of my forked repository which I own are merged
into that other repository in the main branch
which I don't own.
Now, otherwise it's the same as before.
You can see the change here.
I can then create a pole request, give is a nice title.
Changed link color since it looks nicer, whatever.
And I can create this poll request here.
Now, this requires a reviewer just as before
but I can leave the poll request like this if I want to.
So now with that, that poll request was opened.
And back on that main repository with the first GitHub user
who owns this repository, I can see this poll request here.
Now, I can again add myself as a reviewer
since a review is needed.
And after adding myself as a reviewer
and reloading this page, I can add my review here.
I can again take a look at the code
and possibly add comments which then could be picked up
by the person who did open this poll request.
But here, I'm fine with everything.
So again, approve this and submit my review.
And now that this has been reviewed,
I could add another comment but I'll just merge
this poll request and confirm this merge.
And now with that, we have another merge
on this main repository which is now based on a change
that was made in a different repository that was forked
from this repository though, and that's the important part.
And that's another way of collaborating and contributing
which is all the very common way,
especially for open source projects.
So you have both approaches,
adding collaborators or relying on forks.
And it simply depends on which kind of project
you are working on, if it's open source
or if you're working on it in a small team,
possibly in a private repository.
GitHub has all these features and many features more
but these are especially important features since GitHub
in the end is all about storing code remotely
but also about collaborating on that code,
working together on that code.
And poll requests, collaborators, forks,
these are all features you should know
when working with GitHub.